# Legal issues

The first question that must be addressed is that of legality. Does using Github Copilot violate any copyright or any other laws?

Specifically, let's look at plagiarism. If a student were to copy a philosophy paper from online, for example, this would be an example of academic dishonesty, as the student would be claiming someone else's work to be their own. Even if they were to "cite their sources" and simply put a quote mark at the beginning and end of the paper and indicate that the entire paper was just one long quote from another source, most professors would reject this paper and not give the students credit for it. On the other hand, if a student copies a paper without citing their source, there could be legal issues related to stealing another's intellectual property.

Whether Github Copilot itself is in violation of copyright laws is a different issue. There is a question as to whether Github has legal rights to train itself on code under open-source licenses, but this is a topic for another report. We will continue this paper assuming that Github is not in violation of any copyright laws; however, this paper is not addressing this issue.

In the same way as lifting entire paragraphs from the internet is disallowed, if a student were to generate a majority of their submission via Github Copilot, a teacher would most likely reject the assignment. After all, the student didn't do the work and didn't show that they have learned whatever topic was intended by the professor, so they don't deserve a good grade.

However, while teachers might not accept assignments generated by AI, they first would need to know that the assignment was generated by an AI. The problem is that, from a legal/copyright standpoint, students do not need to give credit to Github Copilot if they use it.

According to Github Copilot's website, "GitHub Copilot is a tool, like a compiler or a pen. The suggestions GitHub Copilot generates, and the code you write with its help, belong to you, and you are responsible for it." Copilot's creators claim that Copilot, like a code editor, is merely a tool and that you have complete rights to all the code it generates. If I write code using Visual Studio Code, that doesn't mean that Microsoft has full rights to my code! The code I write is still *my* code, and I hold all the rights to that code. It's just like with paper and pencils - if I use a Pilot pen to sketch out an idea on a napkin, I still maintain full legal rights to the idea. Neither the pen manufacturer nor the napkin manufacturer can take your idea - it's *your* idea. You simply used their tools to communicate the idea.

In addition, unlike papers found online, you do not need to credit Github Copilot in your code. As they say on their website, "the code you create with GitHub Copilot’s help belongs to you. While every friendly robot likes the occasional word of thanks, you are in no way obligated to credit GitHub Copilot. Just like with a compiler, the output of your use of GitHub Copilot belongs to you."

Thus, from a legal/copyright standpoint, code generated by Github Copilot would be fair use for students. If a student were to use Github Copilot without mentioning it to a professor, that student wouldn't be able to be legally able to be prosecuted.

This, of course, assumes that Copilot acts like a compiler or a code editor. Let's compare how Copilot acts as compared to other tools which can be integrated into an editor.